Move Native Messaging docs from apps to extensions. (#5433)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/extensions/mv3/nativeMessaging/index.md

seoTitle: "Chrome Extensions: Native Messaging"
date: 2023-02-23
updated: 2023-02-23
description: How to exchange messages with native applications from your Chrome Extension.
---

Extensions can exchange messages with native applications using an API that is similar to
the other [message passing APIs][messaging]. Native applications that support this feature must register a
_native messaging host_ that knows how to communicate with the extension. Chrome starts the host in
a separate process and communicates with it using standard input and standard output streams.

## Native messaging host {: #native-messaging-host }

In order to register a native messaging host the application must install a manifest file that
defines the native messaging host configuration. Below is an example of the manifest file:

```json
{
  "name": "com.my_company.my_application",
  "description": "My Application",
  "path": "C:\\Program Files\\My Application\\chrome_native_messaging_host.exe",
  "type": "stdio",
  "allowed_origins": ["chrome-extension://knldjmfmopnpolahpmmgbagdohdnhkik/"]
}
```

The native messaging host manifest file must be valid JSON and contains the following fields:

> <table class="simple" id="native-messaging-host-manifest"><tbody><tr><th>Name</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td><code>name</code></td><td>Name of the native messaging host. Clients pass this string to <a href="/apps/runtime#method-connectNative">runtime.connectNative</a> or <a href="/apps/runtime#method-sendNativeMessage">runtime.sendNativeMessage</a>. This name can only contain lowercase alphanumeric characters, underscores and dots. The name cannot start or end with a dot, and a dot cannot be followed by another dot.</td></tr><tr><td><code>description</code></td><td>Short application description.</td></tr><tr><td><code>path</code></td><td>Path to the native messaging host binary. On Linux and macOS the path must be absolute. On Windows it can be relative to the directory in which the manifest file is located. The host process is started with the current directory set to the directory that contains the host binary. For example if this parameter is set to <code>C:\Application\nm_host.exe</code> then it will be started with current directory <code>C:\Application\</code>.</td></tr><tr><td><code>type</code></td><td>Type of the interface used to communicate with the native messaging host. Currently there is only one possible value for this parameter: <code>stdio</code>. It indicates that Chrome should use <code>stdin</code> and <code>stdout</code> to communicate with the host.</td></tr><tr><td><code>allowed_origins</code></td><td>List of extensions that should have access to the native messaging host. Wildcards such as <code>chrome-extension://*/*</code> are <em>not</em> allowed.</td></tr></tbody></table>

Reviewer: At the very least, the HTML needs to be formatted to make reviewing and editing easier.

What is it about the DL formatting that you think isn't clean.

> <table class="simple" id="native-messaging-host-manifest"><tbody><tr><th>Name</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td><code>name</code></td><td>Name of the native messaging host. Clients pass this string to <a href="/apps/runtime#method-connectNative">runtime.connectNative</a> or <a href="/apps/runtime#method-sendNativeMessage">runtime.sendNativeMessage</a>. This name can only contain lowercase alphanumeric characters, underscores and dots. The name cannot start or end with a dot, and a dot cannot be followed by another dot.</td></tr><tr><td><code>description</code></td><td>Short application description.</td></tr><tr><td><code>path</code></td><td>Path to the native messaging host binary. On Linux and macOS the path must be absolute. On Windows it can be relative to the directory in which the manifest file is located. The host process is started with the current directory set to the directory that contains the host binary. For example if this parameter is set to <code>C:\Application\nm_host.exe</code> then it will be started with current directory <code>C:\Application\</code>.</td></tr><tr><td><code>type</code></td><td>Type of the interface used to communicate with the native messaging host. Currently there is only one possible value for this parameter: <code>stdio</code>. It indicates that Chrome should use <code>stdin</code> and <code>stdout</code> to communicate with the host.</td></tr><tr><td><code>allowed_origins</code></td><td>List of extensions that should have access to the native messaging host. Wildcards such as <code>chrome-extension://*/*</code> are <em>not</em> allowed.</td></tr></tbody></table>

Author: I kept the table but moved to MD formatting. Let me know if that looks good.

### Native messaging host location {: #native-messaging-host-location }

The location of the manifest file depends on the platform.

On **Windows**, the manifest file can be located anywhere in the file system. The application
installer must create registry key
`HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Google\Chrome\NativeMessagingHosts\com.my_company.my_application` or
`HKEY_CURRENT_USER\SOFTWARE\Google\Chrome\NativeMessagingHosts\com.my_company.my_application`, and
set default value of that key to the full path to the manifest file. For example, using the
following command:

> ```text

Author: I'm reluctant to set bash here since this is a windows server command, not bash, and the highlighting might not be correct. Text is nice because it just renders plainly.

REG ADD "HKCU\Software\Google\Chrome\NativeMessagingHosts\com.my_company.my_application" /ve /t REG_SZ /d "C:\path\to\nmh-manifest.json" /f
```

or using the following `.reg` file:

> ```text

Author: Same as above.

Windows Registry Editor Version 5.00
[HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Google\Chrome\NativeMessagingHosts\com.my_company.my_application]
@="C:\\path\\to\\nmh-manifest.json"
```

When Chrome looks for native messaging hosts, first the 32-bit registry is queried, then the 64-bit
registry.

On **macOS** and **Linux**, the location of the native messaging host's manifest file varies by the
browser (Google Chrome or Chromium). The system-wide native messaging hosts are looked up at a fixed
location, while the user-level native messaging hosts are looked up in a subdirectory within the

> [user profile directory][user-data-directory] called `NativeMessagingHosts`.

Reviewer 2: Why? The path separator isn't a part of the name.

> [user profile directory][user-data-directory] called `NativeMessagingHosts`.

Author: I've rephrased this a little to hopefully address both comments.

  - Google Chrome: `/Library/Google/Chrome/NativeMessagingHosts/com.my_company.my_application.json`
  - Chromium: `/Library/Application Support/Chromium/NativeMessagingHosts/com.my_company.my_application.json`
- macOS (user-specific, _default_ path)
  - Google Chrome: `~/Library/Application Support/Google/Chrome/NativeMessagingHosts/com.my_company.my_application.json`
  - Chromium: `~/Library/Application Support/Chromium/NativeMessagingHosts/com.my_company.my_application.json`
- Linux (system-wide)
  - Google Chrome: `/etc/opt/chrome/native-messaging-hosts/com.my_company.my_application.json`
  - Chromium: `/etc/chromium/native-messaging-hosts/com.my_company.my_application.json`
- Linux (user-specific, _default_ path)
  - Google Chrome: `~/.config/google-chrome/NativeMessagingHosts/com.my_company.my_application.json`
  - Chromium: `~/.config/chromium/NativeMessagingHosts/com.my_company.my_application.json`

### Native messaging protocol {: #native-messaging-host-protocol }

Chrome starts each native messaging host in a separate process and communicates with it using
standard input (`stdin`) and standard output (`stdout`). The same format is used to send messages in

> both directions: each message is serialized using JSON, UTF-8 encoded and is preceded with 32-bit

Reviewer 2: Now it's unclear where the format is defined. The colon was used because this was a "definition: explanation".

message length in native byte order. The maximum size of a single message from the native messaging
host is 1 MB, mainly to protect Chrome from misbehaving native applications. The maximum size of the
message sent to the native messaging host is 4 GB.

> The first argument to the native messaging host is the origin of the caller, usually

Author: There was already a paragraph on this so I've just moved it up.

`chrome-extension://[ID of allowed extension]`. This allows native messaging hosts to identify the
source of the message when multiple extensions are specified in the `allowed_origins` key in the
[native messaging host manifest][native-messaging-host-manifest].
**_Warning_**: In Windows, in Chrome 54 and earlier, the origin was passed as the second parameter
instead of the first parameter.

When a messaging port is created using [runtime.connectNative][connect-native] Chrome starts native messaging
host process and keeps it running until the port is destroyed. On the other hand, when a message is

> sent using [runtime.sendNativeMessage][send-native-message], without creating a messaging port, Chrome starts a new

Reviewer 2: Not sure adding `()` is better, but if this is indeed important then it should be probably automated via a script because you're missing it on some methods even in this review and I see the same inconsistent use of () in the other articles like [messaging](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/mv3/messaging/).

native messaging host process for each message. In that case the first message generated by the host

> process is handled as a response to the original request, i.e. Chrome will pass it to the response

Reviewer 2: This was a direct explanation of "handled as a response", which is an ambiguous concept without its own specific meaning, so it might be better to leave the explanation in the same sentence. In case you're sure starting a sentence reads better consider starting it with `That is` instead of a somewhat unusually placed `I.e.`.

> process is handled as a response to the original request, i.e. Chrome will pass it to the response

Author: I've reworded to just avoid this entirely.

[runtime.sendMessage][send-message].
These methods can only be used if the "nativeMessaging" permission is [declared][declare-permissions] in your extensions's
manifest file.

The following example creates a [runtime.Port][port] object that's connected to native messaging host
`com.my_company.my_application`, starts listening for messages from that port and sends one outgoing
message:

```js
var port = chrome.runtime.connectNative('com.my_company.my_application');
port.onMessage.addListener(function (msg) {
  console.log('Received' + msg);
});
port.onDisconnect.addListener(function () {
  console.log('Disconnected');
});
port.postMessage({text: 'Hello, my_application'});
```

[runtime.sendNativeMessage][send-native-message] can be used to send a message to native application without creating
a port, e.g.:

```js
chrome.runtime.sendNativeMessage(
  'com.my_company.my_application',
  {text: 'Hello'},
  function (response) {
    console.log('Received ' + response);
  }
);
```

## Debugging native messaging {: #native-messaging-debugging }

When the native messaging host fails to start, writes to `stderr` or when it violates the

> communication protocol, output is written to the error log of Chrome. On Linux and macOS, this log

Author: I've reworded this to try and make it clearer. In the future, it'd be helpful if you could be more specific about what threw you off so I can make sure to address that :)

can easily be accessed by starting Chrome from the command line and watching its output in the
terminal. On Windows, use `--enable-logging` as explained at [How to enable logging][enable-logging].

Here are some errors and tips for solving the issues:

- Failed to start native messaging host.
  - Check whether you have sufficient permissions to execute the file.
- Invalid native messaging host name specified.
  - Check whether the name contains any invalid characters. Only lowercase alphanumeric characters,
    underscores and dots are allowed. A name cannot start or end with a dot, and a dot cannot be
    followed by another dot.
- Native host has exited.
  - The pipe to the native messaging host was broken before the message was read by Chrome. This is most
    likely initiated from your native messaging host.
- Specified native messaging host not found.
  - Is the name spelled correctly in the extension and in the manifest file?

>   - Is the manifest put in the right directory and with the correct name? See [native messaging host

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Is the manifest in the right directory and with the correct name? See [native messaging host
```

    location][native-messaging-host-location] for the expected formats.

>   - Is the manifest file in the correct format? In particular, is the JSON syntax correct and do the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Is the manifest file in the correct format? In particular, is the JSON valid and well-formed and do the
```

Author: I actually think this makes it more wordy and hard to follow.

Reviewer: Isn't 'valid and well-formed' the more technically correct term though?

    values match the definition of a [native messaging host manifest][native-messaging-host-manifest]?
  - Does the file specified in `path` exist? On Windows, paths may be relative, but on macOS and Linux,
    the paths must be absolute.
- Native messaging host _host name_ is not registered. (Windows-only)
  - The native messaging host was not found in the Windows registry. Double-check using `regedit`
    whether the key was really created and matches the required format as documented at [native
    messaging host location][native-messaging-host-location].
- Access to the specified native messaging host is forbidden.
  - Is the extension's origin listed in `allowed_origins`?
- Error when communicating with the native messaging host.

>   - This is a very common error and indicates an incorrect implementation of the communication protocol

Reviewer: If this is such a common error, why not list it first? Then you don't need to say it's a common error. You probably don't need to regardless.
